Switch Emulator for DRAGON VLSR
- Chris Tracy <chris@maxgigapop.net>

This is a switch emulator package, designed for use with the DRAGON
VLSR.

The purpose is to provide a "software switch" so that it is possible
to test LSP signalling without real switching hardware.  This has been
found to be useful for testing, development, and/or educational
purposes.

In order to use this software, you should already be familiar with
deploying and configuring the DRAGON software packages.  This package
is written in Perl, so no compilation is necessary.  It has been
tested with perl-5.8.8 on a stock Debian 4.0 system and it does not
require any additional perl components.

To get started, run the emulator with '-?' to see the usage
information:

$ bin/emulator -?
Emulator command-line arguments:
    -D          Debug mode. Server forks a child that actually
                performs the gateway functions.
    -F          Foreground mode. Don't fork into the background.
    -f <file>   Use the specified file instead of emulator.conf
    -?          This, obviously.

The emulator requires a configuration file to start.  By default, the
emulator will attempt to load 'bin/../emulator.conf', assuming the
perl script is in the 'bin' directory.  You can optionally set the
EMULATOR environment variable to point to the .conf file, or you can
use the '-f <file>' option to load a specific file.

Please refer to the emulator.conf file in this directory for the
format of the configuration file.  The 'examples' directory contains
specific examples.

The DRAGON software has been designed to work with different types of
switching hardware which are produced by many different vendors.  This
package will eventually attempt to emulate all of the switches which
the DRAGON software is compatible with, but only a subset of all real
switch hardware may be emulated at any given time.
